# Physically based Modeling and Animation

Some main concepts:

- The process of handling collisions in a physically based system involves:
  - **Collision Detection**(Does a collision occur?)
  - **Determination**(When and where does it occur?)
  - **Response**(How is velocity updated to account for the collision?)
- The simulation loop iterates in discrete timesteps, but **each timestep might be interrupted by a collision**, and this can happen repeatedly. **The collision logic must account for the possibility that multiple collisions might occur during one timestep.**
- How to check for the collision of a moving point with an infinite plane? **Checking which side of the plane a point is on at the beginning and end of a timestep**
- **Collision response considers both restitution and friction between the colliding object and the plane.** Restitution affects what fraction of the normal component of velocity is reflected, and friction affects how much the tangential component of velocity is reduced.
- Collision handling of a moving point with a polygon requires first performing detection and determination on the infinite plane that the polygon lies in, and the testing whether or not any potential collision point is actually in side the polygon.

## Particle System

**A particle is generated from one or more locations in space, whose motion is determined by external forces.**

We typically want these particles to interact with complex scene geometry, but ** do not interact with each other.**

The desired coherence of a particle system is achieved by **associating a particle generator with each particle system. The is a geometric object that can be placed in a scene, and is equipped with a procedure for creating and injecting particles into that scene.** As each particle is generated, **it receives an initial position and velocity from its particle generator, ** and is also given a set of parameters that affect its look, behaviour, and duration. *These are normally adopted to match the desired particle effect.*

**when a particle is generated, it is normal to mark it with a time stamp, so that its age can be computed.**

it is sometimes useful to store a particle history, which might contain the position of the particle over the past several timesteps, or the time of the most recent collision. Particle history is most often used during rendering.



# Vulkan



